.TH entab "1" "June 2023" "Text Utility" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
entab \- convert space chars to tabs and print on the standard output
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B entab
[\fI-Z|-F\fR] [\fI-E (d|h|i|p|s)\fR] 
[\fI-T repeat\fR] [\fI-t t1,t2,t3,...\fR] [\fIfile\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Read \fIfile\fR, or stdin, convert spaces to tabs and output to stdout.
.TP
\fB\-Z\fR 
don't replace single space with tab character.
.TP
\fB\-F\fR 
assume input is fixed width fields on tab stops with zero or more trailing spaces and always insert a tab character absorbing any trailing spaces.
.TP
\fB\-E d|h|i|p|s\fR 
handling embedded tab characters in the input (no good options):
.nf
.br
\fBd\fR - delete 
.br
\fBh\fR - honour tab request and move to next tab stop 
.br
\fBi\fR - insert sufficient spaces to move to next standard (-T 8) stop
.br
\fBp\fR - pass the tab character as a normal non-space character
.br
\fBs\fR - substitute the tab character with a single space.
.fi
.TP
\fB\-T\fR \fIrepeat\fR
set tab stops at every \fIrepeat\fR column
.TP
\fB\-t\fR \fIt1,t2,t3,...\fR
set tab stops at columns \fIt1\fR, \fIt2\fR, \fIt3\fR etc and then every \fIrepeat\fR column
.PP
With no \fIfile\fR, read stdin.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
\fBentab\fR \fI#\fR The default is to use tab stop every 8 columns
.TP
\fBentab\fR \fI\-T 8\fR \fI#\fR ditto
.TP
\fBentab\fR \fI\-T 7\fR \fI-t 3,6,10\fR
.TP
\fBInput\fR
12345678901234567890123456789
.br
a  b  c   d   e      f      g
.br
.TP
\fBOutput\fR
a\\tb\\tc\\td\\te\\tf\\tg
.TP
\fBentab\fR \fI\-F\fR \fI-t 1,7,72\fR
.TP
\fBInput\fR
12345678901234567890123456789
.TP
\fBOutput\fR
1\\t234567\\t8901234567890123456789
.SH BUGS
.TP
Doesn't make any allowance for backspace characters.
.TP
Enumerated tab positions can be set from 1 to UINT16_MAX but otherwise no restrictions.
.TP
The handling of embedded tabs by \fBentab\fR is a hack at best.

